doc/index.rst, before:

.. filabres documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Mar  4 20:10:29 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to filabres's documentation!
====================================

This is the documentation for **filabres** (version |version|).

**Filabres** is embedded in a joint effort of the `Calar Alto Observatory
<http://w3.caha.es/>`_ (especially Santos Pedraz and Jesús Aceituno),
the `Spanish Virtual Observatory
<https://svo.cab.inta-csic.es/>`_ (Enrique Solano, José Manuel Alacid and
Miriam Cortés), and the `Physics of the Earth and
Astrophysics Department
<https://www.ucm.es/fisica_de_la_tierra_y_astrofisica/>`_ at the Universidad
Complutense de Madrid (Nicolás Cardiel, Enrique Galcerán and Jaime Hernández),
with the main goal is to provide useful
reduced images through the Calar Alto Archive hosted at
http://caha.sdc.cab.inta-csic.es/calto/.

Although this software package has been initially created with the idea of
performing the automatic reduction of direct images obtained with the instrument
CAFOS, placed at the 2.2 m telescope of the Calar Alto Observatory, it has been
designed to allow the future inclusion of additional observing modes and
instruments.

At present, **filabres** performs the following tasks:

- Image classification (bias, flat-imaging, arc, science-imaging, etc.)

- Reduction of calibration images (bias, flat-imaging) and generation
  of combined master calibrations as a function of the modified Julian Date.

- Basic reduction of individual science images, making use of the corresponding
  master calibrations (closest in time to the observation of the science
  target). The main reduction steps considered here are:

  - bias subtraction

  - flatfielding of the images

  - astrometric calibration (performed with the help of additional software
    tools provided by `astrometry.net <http://astrometry.net/doc/readme.html>`_
    and by `AstrOmatic.net <https://www.astromatic.net/>`_)

Developer and maintainer: Nicolás Cardiel (cardiel@ucm.es)

.. only:: html

   Document index:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation

Commit message:

Create document entry for the tutorial

doc/index.rst, after:

.. filabres documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Mar  4 20:10:29 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to filabres's documentation!
====================================

This is the documentation for **filabres** (version |version|).

**Filabres** is embedded in a joint effort of the `Calar Alto Observatory
<http://w3.caha.es/>`_ (especially Santos Pedraz and Jesús Aceituno),
the `Spanish Virtual Observatory
<https://svo.cab.inta-csic.es/>`_ (Enrique Solano, José Manuel Alacid and
Miriam Cortés), and the `Physics of the Earth and
Astrophysics Department
<https://www.ucm.es/fisica_de_la_tierra_y_astrofisica/>`_ at the Universidad
Complutense de Madrid (Nicolás Cardiel, Enrique Galcerán and Jaime Hernández),
with the main goal of providing useful
reduced images through the Calar Alto Archive hosted at
http://caha.sdc.cab.inta-csic.es/calto/.

Although this software package has been initially created with the idea of
performing the automatic reduction of direct images obtained with the instrument
CAFOS, placed at the 2.2 m telescope of the Calar Alto Observatory, **filabres**
has been designed to allow the future inclusion of additional observing modes and
instruments.

The typical workflow with **filabres** consists of the following steps:

1. Image classification (bias, flat-imaging, arc, science-imaging, etc.)

2. Reduction of calibration images (bias, flat-imaging) and generation
   of combined master calibrations as a function of the modified Julian Date.

3. Basic reduction of individual science images, making use of the corresponding
   master calibrations (closest in time to the observation of the science
   target). The main reduction steps considered here are:

   - bias subtraction

   - flatfielding of the images

   - astrometric calibration (performed with the help of additional software
     tools provided by `astrometry.net <http://astrometry.net/doc/readme.html>`_
     and by `AstrOmatic.net <https://www.astromatic.net/>`_)

An example of use of **filabres** with CAFOS data from 2017 is illustrated in
the tutorial.

.. only:: html

   Document index:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   tutorial_cafos2017


Developer and maintainer: Nicolás Cardiel (cardiel@ucm.es)
