doc/tutorial_cafos2017.rst, before:

.. _tutorial_cafos2017:

*************************
Tutorial: CAFOS 2017 data
*************************

.. warning::

   It is recommedable to run the code from an empty directory.

Activate the conda environment ``filabres`` and check that the software is
available:

::

   $ conda activate filabres
   (filabres ) $ filabres-version
   0.9.0

Note that your version can be different to the one shown above.

Initial setup
=============

The first thing that you need to do before start working with **filabres**
is to generate some configuration files that will define the behavior of the
program. These initial files can be easily generated by using the ``--setup``
with two arguments: the name of the instrument and the directory where the
original (raw data) FITS files are stored. For example, to use the CAFOS
instrument with the original files located under ``/Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017``:

::

   (filabres) $ filabres --setup cafos /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   File setup_filabres.yaml created!
   File ignored_images.yaml created!
   File image_corrections.yaml created!

The new files have been written in YAML format, which is a human-readable
data-serialization language commonly used for configuration files.

File ``setup_filabres.yaml``
----------------------------

The first file, ``setup_filabres.yaml``, contains a few definitions:

::

   # file setup_filabres.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.135937
   #
   instrument: cafos
   datadir: /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   ignored_images_file: ignored_images.yaml
   image_header_corrections_file: image_header_corrections.yaml


- ``instrument``: the instrument name

- ``datadir``: the directory where the original (raw data) FITS files are
  stored

- ``ignored_images_file``: the name of an auxiliary YAML file that contains
  files that must be ignored (explained below)

- ``image_header_corrections_file``: the name of an auxiliary YAML file that
  contains corrections for the classification of images (explained below).

Note that under the directory ``datadir`` there must exist a subdirectory tree
with the original FITS files segregated by observing night in different
subdirectories, i.e.,

::

   (filabres) $ ls /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   170225_t2_CAFOS/ 170524_t2_CAFOS/ 170807_t2_CAFOS/ 171108_t2_CAFOS/
   170226_t2_CAFOS/ 170525_t2_CAFOS/ 170809_t2_CAFOS/ 171116_t2_CAFOS/
   170319_t2_CAFOS/ 170526_t2_CAFOS/ 170811_t2_CAFOS/ 171120_t2_CAFOS/
   170331_t2_CAFOS/ 170527_t2_CAFOS/ 170825_t2_CAFOS/ 171121_t2_CAFOS/
   170403_t2_CAFOS/ 170528_t2_CAFOS/ 170903_t2_CAFOS/ 171209_t2_CAFOS/
   170408_t2_CAFOS/ 170601_t2_CAFOS/ 170918_t2_CAFOS/ 171217_t2_CAFOS/
   170420_t2_CAFOS/ 170602_t2_CAFOS/ 170926_t2_CAFOS/ 171218_t2_CAFOS/
   170422_t2_CAFOS/ 170621_t2_CAFOS/ 170928_t2_CAFOS/ 171219_t2_CAFOS/
   170502_t2_CAFOS/ 170627_t2_CAFOS/ 170929_t2_CAFOS/ 171221_t2_CAFOS/
   170505_t2_CAFOS/ 170628_t2_CAFOS/ 171002_t2_CAFOS/ 171223_t2_CAFOS/
   170506_t2_CAFOS/ 170629_t2_CAFOS/ 171008_t2_CAFOS/ 171225_t2_CAFOS/
   170507_t2_CAFOS/ 170713_t2_CAFOS/ 171011_t2_CAFOS/ 171228_t2_CAFOS/
   170517_t2_CAFOS/ 170720_t2_CAFOS/ 171015_t2_CAFOS/ 171230_t2_CAFOS/
   170518_t2_CAFOS/ 170724_t2_CAFOS/ 171016_t2_CAFOS/
   170519_t2_CAFOS/ 170731_t2_CAFOS/ 171101_t2_CAFOS/

.. note::

   The original FITS files are not modified by **filabres**.
   This program copies all the required files to the working directory in
   order to keep the original files safe from accidental overwritting or
   deletion. In this sense, the working directory should be different
   from ``datadir``.

File ``ignored_images.yaml``
----------------------------

The second YAML file is empty except for some comments:

::

   # file ignored_images.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.136904
   #

This file will contain a description of files that, for any reason, must be
ignored. The inclusion of the unuseful file names here will help to keep all
the original files within ``datadir`` without the need to actually removing
them (which can allow later the recovery of any of the ignored files).

File ``image_header_corrections.yaml``
--------------------------------------

The third YAML file is also empty except for some similar comments:

::

   # file image_corrections.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.137116
   #

This file will describe changes that we will have to introduce in some
FITS keywords of the original files in order to obtain a correct image
classification.

Initial image check
===================

Before starting with the image classification, it is important to double check
that there are no duplicate original FITS images within the ``datadir`` tree.
This can be easily checked using:

::

   (filabres) $ filabres --check
   Night 170225_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   140 --> TOTAL:   140
   Night 170226_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    55 --> TOTAL:   195
   Night 170319_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   149 --> TOTAL:   344
   Night 170331_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   119 --> TOTAL:   463
   Night 170403_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   336 --> TOTAL:   799
   Night 170408_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   153 --> TOTAL:   952
   ...
   ...
   Night 171221_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   185 --> TOTAL:  8839
   Night 171223_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    74 --> TOTAL:  8913
   Night 171225_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    86 --> TOTAL:  8999
   Night 171228_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    50 --> TOTAL:  9049
   Night 171230_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   383 --> TOTAL:  9432
   WARNING: There are repeated files!
   Press <ENTER> to display duplicate files...

At this point the program has revealed that there are repeated files. The
duplicate cases are displayed after pressing ``<ENTER>``

::

   * File caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170507_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits

   * File caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits

   * File caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170507_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits

   ...
   ...

   * File caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171217_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171225_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits

   * File caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171217_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171225_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits
   * program STOP

The detailed examination of the above output

Initialize the auxiliary image databases
========================================

Classify the images
-------------------

Examine the image classification
--------------------------------

Reduction of calibration images
===============================


Bias images
-----------

Flat images
-----------

Reduction of science images
===========================

Commit message:

Initial version using ignored_images.yaml

doc/tutorial_cafos2017.rst, after:

.. _tutorial_cafos2017:

*************************
Tutorial: CAFOS 2017 data
*************************

.. warning::

   It is recommedable to run the code from an empty directory.

Activate the conda environment ``filabres`` and check that the software is
available:

::

   $ conda activate filabres
   (filabres ) $ filabres-version
   0.9.0

Note that your version can be different to the one shown above.

Initial setup
=============

The first thing that you need to do before start working with **filabres**
is to generate some configuration files that will define the behavior of the
program. These initial files can be easily generated by using the ``--setup``
with two arguments: the name of the instrument and the directory where the
original (raw data) FITS files are stored. For example, to use the CAFOS
instrument with the original files located under ``/Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017``:

::

   (filabres) $ filabres --setup cafos /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   File setup_filabres.yaml created!
   File ignored_images.yaml created!
   File image_corrections.yaml created!

The new files have been written in YAML format, which is a human-readable
data-serialization language commonly used for configuration files.

File ``setup_filabres.yaml``
----------------------------

The first file, ``setup_filabres.yaml``, contains a few definitions:

::

   # file setup_filabres.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.135937
   #
   instrument: cafos
   datadir: /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   ignored_images_file: ignored_images.yaml
   image_header_corrections_file: image_header_corrections.yaml


- ``instrument``: the instrument name

- ``datadir``: the directory where the original (raw data) FITS files are
  stored

- ``ignored_images_file``: the name of an auxiliary YAML file that contains
  files that must be ignored (explained below)

- ``image_header_corrections_file``: the name of an auxiliary YAML file that
  contains corrections for the classification of images (explained below).

Note that under the directory ``datadir`` there must exist a subdirectory tree
with the original FITS files segregated by observing night in different
subdirectories, i.e.,

::

   (filabres) $ ls /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017
   170225_t2_CAFOS/ 170524_t2_CAFOS/ 170807_t2_CAFOS/ 171108_t2_CAFOS/
   170226_t2_CAFOS/ 170525_t2_CAFOS/ 170809_t2_CAFOS/ 171116_t2_CAFOS/
   170319_t2_CAFOS/ 170526_t2_CAFOS/ 170811_t2_CAFOS/ 171120_t2_CAFOS/
   170331_t2_CAFOS/ 170527_t2_CAFOS/ 170825_t2_CAFOS/ 171121_t2_CAFOS/
   170403_t2_CAFOS/ 170528_t2_CAFOS/ 170903_t2_CAFOS/ 171209_t2_CAFOS/
   170408_t2_CAFOS/ 170601_t2_CAFOS/ 170918_t2_CAFOS/ 171217_t2_CAFOS/
   170420_t2_CAFOS/ 170602_t2_CAFOS/ 170926_t2_CAFOS/ 171218_t2_CAFOS/
   170422_t2_CAFOS/ 170621_t2_CAFOS/ 170928_t2_CAFOS/ 171219_t2_CAFOS/
   170502_t2_CAFOS/ 170627_t2_CAFOS/ 170929_t2_CAFOS/ 171221_t2_CAFOS/
   170505_t2_CAFOS/ 170628_t2_CAFOS/ 171002_t2_CAFOS/ 171223_t2_CAFOS/
   170506_t2_CAFOS/ 170629_t2_CAFOS/ 171008_t2_CAFOS/ 171225_t2_CAFOS/
   170507_t2_CAFOS/ 170713_t2_CAFOS/ 171011_t2_CAFOS/ 171228_t2_CAFOS/
   170517_t2_CAFOS/ 170720_t2_CAFOS/ 171015_t2_CAFOS/ 171230_t2_CAFOS/
   170518_t2_CAFOS/ 170724_t2_CAFOS/ 171016_t2_CAFOS/
   170519_t2_CAFOS/ 170731_t2_CAFOS/ 171101_t2_CAFOS/

.. note::

   The original FITS files are not modified by **filabres**.
   This program copies all the required files to the working directory in
   order to keep the original files safe from accidental overwritting or
   deletion. In this sense, the working directory should be different
   from ``datadir``.

File ``ignored_images.yaml``
----------------------------

The second YAML file is empty except for some comments:

::

   # file ignored_images.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.136904
   #

This file will contain a description of files that, for any reason, must be
ignored. The inclusion of the unuseful file names here will help to keep all
the original files within ``datadir`` without the need to actually removing
them (which can allow later the recovery of any of the ignored files).

File ``image_header_corrections.yaml``
--------------------------------------

The third YAML file is also empty except for some similar comments:

::

   # file image_corrections.yaml
   #
   # generated automatically by filabres v.0.9.5
   #
   # creation date 2020-03-05T18:00:52.137116
   #

This file will describe changes that we will have to introduce in some
FITS keywords of the original files in order to obtain a correct image
classification.

Initial image check
===================

Before starting with the image classification, it is important to double check
that there are no duplicate original FITS images within the ``datadir`` tree.
This can be easily checked using:

::

   (filabres) $ filabres --check
   Night 170225_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   140 --> TOTAL:   140
   Night 170226_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    55 --> TOTAL:   195
   Night 170319_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   149 --> TOTAL:   344
   Night 170331_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   119 --> TOTAL:   463
   Night 170403_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   336 --> TOTAL:   799
   Night 170408_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   153 --> TOTAL:   952
   ...
   ...
   Night 171221_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   185 --> TOTAL:  8839
   Night 171223_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    74 --> TOTAL:  8913
   Night 171225_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    86 --> TOTAL:  8999
   Night 171228_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:    50 --> TOTAL:  9049
   Night 171230_t2_CAFOS -> number of files:   383 --> TOTAL:  9432
   WARNING: There are repeated files!
   Press <ENTER> to display duplicate files...

At this point the program has revealed that there are repeated files. The
duplicate cases are displayed after pressing ``<ENTER>``

::

   * File caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170507_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-13:42:00-cal-reba.fits

   * File caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-21:30:03-sci-agui.fits

   * File caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170505_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170506_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/170507_t2_CAFOS/caf-20170505-10:08:36-cal-agui.fits

   ...
   ...

   * File caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171217_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171225_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:28:31-cal-bard.fits

   * File caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits appears in:
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171217_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits
   /Users/cardiel/CAFOS2017/171225_t2_CAFOS/caf-20171225-19:42:55-cal-bard.fits
   * program STOP

The detailed examination of the above output reveals that:

- the files ``caf-20170505-*`` are duplicated in subdirectory night ``170506_t2_CAFOS``

- the files ``caf-20170505-*`` are duplicated in subdirectory night ``170507_t2_CAFOS``

- all the files in ``171219_t2_CAFOS`` are duplicated calibrations from ``171218_t2_CAFOS``

- the files ``caf-20171225-*`` are duplicated in subdirectory night ``171217_t2_CAFOS``

The best way to deal with these duplicated files is to insert them in the
auxiliary file ``ignored_images.yaml``.

Update the file ``ignored_images.yaml``
---------------------------------------




Initialize the auxiliary image databases
========================================

Classify the images
-------------------

Examine the image classification
--------------------------------

Update the file ``image_header_corrections.yaml``
-------------------------------------------------

And repeat image classification!


Reduction of calibration images
===============================


Bias images
-----------

Flat images
-----------

Reduction of science images
===========================
